Add a sample application for the combination of Microservice transaction and Spring Data JDBC for ScalarDB (#37)
scalar-labs/scalardb-samples: spring-data-microservice-transaction-sample/README.md

# Sample application of Spring Data JDBC for ScalarDB with Microservice Transactions

> This tutorial describes how to create a sample Spring Boot application for microservice transactions by using Spring Data JDBC for ScalarDB with Two-phase Commit Transactions in ScalarDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial describes how to create a sample Spring Boot application for microservice transactions by using Spring Data JDBC for ScalarDB.
```
The original one is logically correct, but I think it's a bit hard to follow.
Is it OK to just say it this way without losing the meaning?

Author: Yeah, the suggested one is simpler and better. Thanks!

```shell
$ export USERNAME=<YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME>
$ export TOKEN=<YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN>
```

For more details, please see [Install - ScalarDB SQL](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-sql#install).

## Sample application

### Overview

This tutorial describes how to create a Spring Boot sample application for Microservice Transaction for the same use case as [ScalarDB Sample](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/tree/main/scalardb-sample) but by using Two-phase Commit Transactions in ScalarDB.

There are two microservices called the *Customer Service* and the *Order Service* based on the [*Database-per-service* pattern](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/database-per-service.html) in this sample application.

The Customer Service manages customers' information including credit card information like a credit limit and a credit total.
The Order Service is responsible for order operations like placing an order and getting order histories.
Each service has gRPC endpoints. Clients call the endpoints, and the services call the endpoints each other as well.

> The Customer Service and Order Service use MySQL and Cassandra through ScalarDB, respectively.

Reviewer: @komamitsu Sorry, I think I added `The` for all.

@josh-wong Are you removing `The` because we treat them as proper nouns?

> The Customer Service and Order Service use MySQL and Cassandra through ScalarDB, respectively.

Reviewer 2: @feeblefakie After some research into how these types of services are referred to, most organizations seem to use `the` (with variations in how they capitalize the services). I've reverted my changes and added `the` in places where it should be added throughout this document. 

> Are you removing `The` because we treat them as proper nouns?

It's a bit tricky. For example, when referring to a department within a company called `Customer Service`, we wouldn't call that department `the Customer Service` (unless it modified a noun, like `the Customer Service department`).

1. Getting customer information. It is a transaction in Customer Service
2. Placing an order (checks if the cost of the order is below the credit limit, then records order history and updates the `credit_total` if the check passes). It is a transaction that spans Order Service and Customer Service.
3. Getting order information by order ID. It is a transaction in Order Service
4. Getting order information by customer ID. It is a transaction in Order Service
5. Repayment (reduces the amount in the `credit_total`). It is a transaction in Customer Service.

### Service Endpoints

The endpoints defined in the services are as follows:

Customer Service:

- getCustomerInfo
- payment
- prepare
- validate
- commit
- rollback
- repayment

Order Service:

- placeOrder
- getOrder
- getOrders

The `getCustomerInfo` endpoint of Customer Service is for transaction #1 (Getting customer information).

And the `placeOrder` endpoint of Order Service and the `payment`, `prepare`, `validate`, `commit`, and `rollback` endpoints of Customer Service are for transaction #2 (Placing an order) that spans Order Service and Customer Service.

> Order Service starts the transaction with the `placeOrder` endpoint, which calls the `payment`, `prepare`, `validate`, `commit`, and `rollback` endpoints of Customer Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Order Service starts the transaction with the `placeOrder` endpoint, which calls the `payment`, `prepare`, `validate`, `commit`, and `rollback` endpoints of the Customer Service.
```

Author: Applying this change in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/40

The `getOrder` of Order Service is for transaction #3, and The `getOrders` of Order Service is for transaction #4.

And the `repayment` endpoint of Customer Service is for transaction #5.

## Configuration

> [The configuration for Customer Service](customer-service/src/main/resources/application.properties) is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[The configuration for the Customer Service](customer-service/src/main/resources/application.properties) is as follows:
```

Author: Applying this change in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/40

- `scalar.db.multi_storage.namespace_mapping`: This configuration maps the namespaces to the storage. In this sample application, operations for `customer_service` namespace tables are mapped to the `mysql` storage and operations for `order_service` namespace tables are mapped to the `cassandra` storage. You can also define which storage is mapped for the `coordinator` namespace that is used in Consensus Commit transactions.
- `scalar.db.multi_storage.default_storage`: This configuration sets the default storage that is used for operations on unmapped namespace tables.
- `scalar.db.sql.default_transaction_mode`: Specifying `two_phase_commit_transaction` is necessary to use Two-Phase Commit Transactions mode in ScalarDB.
- `scalar.db.consensus_commit.isolation_level`: This configuration decides the isolation level used for ConsensusCommit.

For details, please see [Configuration - Multi-storage Transactions](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/multi-storage-transactions.md#configuration).

> [The configuration for Order Service](order-service/src/main/resources/application.properties) is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[The configuration for the Order Service](order-service/src/main/resources/application.properties) is as follows:
```

Author: Applying this change in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/40

```

- `scalar.db.storage`: `cassandra` is specified since this servcise uses only Cassandra as an underlying database.
- `scalar.db.contact_points`: This configuration specifies the contact points (e.g., host) for connecting to Cassandra.
- `scalar.db.username`: This configuration specifies the username for connecting to Cassandra.
- `scalar.db.password`: This configuration specifies the password for connecting to Cassandra.
- `scalar.db.sql.default_namespace_name`: This configuration sets the default namespace to `order_service`, eliminating the need for the application to specify namespaces.
- `scalar.db.sql.default_transaction_mode`: Specifying `two_phase_commit_transaction` is necessary to use Two-Phase Commit Transactions mode in ScalarDB.
- `scalar.db.consensus_commit.isolation_level`: This configuration decides the isolation level used for ConsensusCommit.

## Setup

### Start Cassandra and MySQL

To start Cassandra and MySQL, you need to run the following `docker-compose` command:

```shell
$ docker-compose up -d cassandra mysql
```

Please note that you need to wait around more than one minute for the containers to be fully started.

> ### Load schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Load the schema
```

You then need to apply the schema with the following command.
To download the CLI tool, `scalardb-sql-cli-<VERSION>-all.jar`, see the [Releases](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-sql/releases) of ScalarDB SQL and download the version that you want to use.

```shell
$ java -jar scalardb-sql-cli-<VERSION>-all.jar --config scalardb-sql.properties --file schema.sql
```

> ### Start Microservices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Start the microservices
```

> First, you need to build the docker images of the sample application with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, you need to build the Docker images of the sample application by running the following command:
```

```shell
$ ./gradlew docker
```

> Then, you can start the microservices with the following `docker-compose` command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, you can start the microservices by running the following `docker-compose` command:
```

        at sample.client.command.PlaceOrderCommand.call(PlaceOrderCommand.java:12)
        at picocli.CommandLine.executeUserObject(CommandLine.java:2041)
        at picocli.CommandLine.access$1500(CommandLine.java:148)
        at picocli.CommandLine$RunLast.executeUserObjectOfLastSubcommandWithSameParent(CommandLine.java:2461)
        at picocli.CommandLine$RunLast.handle(CommandLine.java:2453)
        at picocli.CommandLine$RunLast.handle(CommandLine.java:2415)
        at picocli.CommandLine$AbstractParseResultHandler.execute(CommandLine.java:2273)
        at picocli.CommandLine$RunLast.execute(CommandLine.java:2417)
        at picocli.CommandLine.execute(CommandLine.java:2170)
        at sample.client.Client.main(Client.java:39)
...
```

After making a payment, the customer will be able to place orders again.

```shell
$ ./gradlew :client:run --args="Repayment 1 8000"
...
$ ./gradlew :client:run --args="GetCustomerInfo 1"
...
{"id": 1,"name": "Yamada Taro","credit_limit": 10000,"credit_total": 2000}
...
$ ./gradlew :client:run --args="PlaceOrder 1 3:1,4:1"
...
{"order_id": "b6adabd8-0a05-4109-9618-3420fea3161f"}
...
```

## Clean up

> To stop Cassandra, MySQL and the Microservices, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To stop Cassandra, MySQL, and the microservices, run the following command:
```

```shell
$ docker-compose down
```

## How the microservice transaction is achieved

So far, you have run the sample application, but you haven't seen how it is implemented.
Let's look at the code to see how the transaction that spans the services is implemented.

> Transaction #2 (Placing an order) achieves the microservice transaction, so we focus on this transaction here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transaction #2 (placing an order) achieves the microservice transaction, so we will focus on this transaction.
```

The sequence diagram of transaction #2 is as follows:

![Sequence Diagram](images/sequence_diagram.png)

### 1. Start a two-phase commit transaction

> When a client sends `Place an order` request to Order Service, [OrderService.placeOrder()](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L97) is called, and the microservice transaction starts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a client sends a request to place an order to Order Service, [OrderService.placeOrder()](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L97) is called, and the microservice transaction starts.
```

> At first, Order Service starts a two-phase commit transaction by calling the repository class's [executeTwoPcTransaction()](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L100-L102):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At first, Order Service starts a two-phase commit transaction by calling the repository class' [executeTwoPcTransaction()](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L100-L102):
```

```java
execAndReturnResponse(responseObserver, "Placing an order", () -> {
  // Start a two-phase commit transaction
  TwoPcResult<String> result = orderRepository.executeTwoPcTransaction(txId -> {
```

> The following `Execute CRUD operations`, `Two-phase Commit` and `Error handling` are automatically performed inside the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sections—*Execute CRUD operations*, *Conduct a two-phase commit*, and *Perform error handling*—are automatically performed inside the API.
```

### 2. Execute CRUD operations

After the transaction is started, the CRUD operations are executed by `executeTwoPcTransaction()`.

> Order Service puts the order information to the `order_service.orders` table also the detailed information to `order_service.statements` (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L106-L128)):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Order Service puts the order information to the `order_service.orders` table and the detailed information to `order_service.statements` (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L106-L128)):
```

```java
// Put the order info into the orders table
orderRepository.insert(order);

AtomicInteger amount = new AtomicInteger();
for (ItemOrder itemOrder : request.getItemOrderList()) {
  int itemId = itemOrder.getItemId();
  int count = itemOrder.getCount();
  // Retrieve the item info from the items table
  Optional<Item> itemOpt = itemRepository.findById(itemId);
  if (!itemOpt.isPresent()) {
    String message = "Item not found: " + itemId;
    responseObserver.onError(
        Status.NOT_FOUND.withDescription(message).asRuntimeException());
    throw new ScalarDbNonTransientException(message);
  }
  Item item = itemOpt.get();

  int cost = item.price * count;
  // Put the order statement into the statements table
  statementRepository.insert(new Statement(itemId, orderId, count));
  // Calculate the total amount
  amount.addAndGet(cost);
}
```

> And, Order Service calls the `payment` gRPC endpoint of Customer Service along with the transaction ID (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L131)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And, the Order Service calls the `payment` gRPC endpoint of the Customer Service along with the transaction ID (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L131)).
```

Author: Applying this change in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/40

This endpoint first joins the transaction with [join()](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L183):

```java
if (isJoin) {
  // Join the transaction
  customerRepository.join(txId);
} else {
  // Resume the transaction
  customerRepository.resume(txId);
}
```

`join()` is called via [execTwoPcOperation()](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L99):

```java
public void payment(PaymentRequest request, StreamObserver<Empty> responseObserver) {
  execTwoPcOperation(request.getTransactionId(), true, responseObserver, "Payment", () -> {
```

> It then gets the customer information, and checks if the customer's credit total exceeds the credit limit after the payment.
> And if the check is okay, it updates the customer's credit total (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L100-L114)):

Reviewer 2: In these two sentences, I assumed that "it" meant "endpoint. Could you please confirm if that is correct?

```suggestion
The endpoint then gets the customer information, and checks if the customer's credit total exceeds the credit limit after the payment.
If the check is okay, the endpoint updates the customer's credit total (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L100-L114)):
```

```java
Customer customer = getCustomer(responseObserver, request.getCustomerId());

int updatedCreditTotal = customer.creditTotal + request.getAmount();
// Check if the credit total exceeds the credit limit after payment
if (updatedCreditTotal > customer.creditLimit) {
  String message = String.format(
      "Credit limit exceeded. creditTotal:%d, payment:%d", customer.creditTotal, request.getAmount());
  responseObserver.onError(
      Status.FAILED_PRECONDITION.withDescription(message).asRuntimeException());
  throw new ScalarDbNonTransientException(message);
}

// Reduce credit_total for the customer
customerRepository.update(customer.withCreditTotal(updatedCreditTotal));
```

> ### 3. Two-phase Commit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. Conduct a two-phase commit
```

> Once Order Service receives a response that the payment succeeded, Order Service tries to commit the transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the Order Service receives a response that the payment succeeded, the Order Service tries to commit the transaction.
```

Author: Applying this change in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/40

> `executeTwoPcTransaction()` API, called on Order Service, automatically performs preparations, validations and commits of both the local Order Service and the remote Customer Serivice. These steps are executed sequentially after the above CRUD operations successfully finish. The implementations to invoke `prepare`, `validate` and `commit` gRPC endpoints of Customer Service need to be passed as parameters to the API (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L134-L141)):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`executeTwoPcTransaction()` API, called on Order Service, automatically performs preparations, validations, and commits of both the local Order Service and the remote Customer Service. These steps are executed sequentially after the above CRUD operations successfully finish. The implementations to invoke the `prepare`, `validate`, and `commit` gRPC endpoints of Customer Service need to be passed as parameters to the API (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L134-L141)):
```

```java
Collections.singletonList(
  RemotePrepareCommitPhaseOperations.createSerializable(
    this::callPrepareEndpoint,
    this::callValidateEndpoint,
    this::callCommitEndpoint,
    this::callRollbackEndpoint
  )
)
```

> ![Sequence Diagram of High Level 2PC API](images/seq-diagram-high-level-2pc-api.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Sequence diagram of high-level 2PC API](images/seq-diagram-high-level-2pc-api.png)
```

> In the `prepare` endpoint of Customer Service, it resumes and prepares the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L122-L126)):

Reviewer 2: According to a [similar sample doc](https://scalardb.scalar-labs.com/docs/latest/scalardb-samples/microservice-transaction-sample/README/#error-handling), "it" seems to refer to "Customer Service". If that is correct, can we change this sentence as follows?

```suggestion
In the `prepare` endpoint of Customer Service, the microservice resumes and prepares the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L122-L126)):
```

```java
execTwoPcOperation(request.getTransactionId(), false, responseObserver, "Payment", () -> {
  // Prepare the transaction
  customerRepository.prepare();
});
```

The transaction is resumed in `execTwoPcOperation()` as shown above.

> In the `validate` endpoint of Customer Service, it resumes and validates the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L131-L135)):

Reviewer 2: According to a [similar sample doc](https://scalardb.scalar-labs.com/docs/latest/scalardb-samples/microservice-transaction-sample/README/#error-handling), "it" seems to refer to "Customer Service". If that is correct, can we change this sentence as follows?

```suggestion
In the `validate` endpoint of Customer Service, the microservice resumes and validates the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L131-L135)):
```

> In the `validate` endpoint of Customer Service, the microservice resumes and validates the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L131-L135)):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `validate` endpoint of the Customer Service, the microservice resumes and validates the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L131-L135)):
```

Author: Applying this change in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/40

```java
execTwoPcOperation(request.getTransactionId(), false, responseObserver, "Validate", () -> {
  // Validate the transaction
  customerRepository.validate();
  return Empty.getDefaultInstance();
});
```

> In the `commit` endpoint of Customer Service, it resumes and commits the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L140-L144)):

Reviewer 2: According to a [similar sample doc](https://scalardb.scalar-labs.com/docs/latest/scalardb-samples/microservice-transaction-sample/README/#error-handling), "it" seems to refer to "Customer Service". If that is correct, can we change this sentence as follows?

```suggestion
In the `commit` endpoint of Customer Service, the microservice resumes and commits the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L140-L144)):
```

> In the `commit` endpoint of Customer Service, the microservice resumes and commits the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L140-L144)):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `commit` endpoint of the Customer Service, the microservice resumes and commits the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L140-L144)):
```

Author: Applying this change in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/40

```java
execTwoPcOperation(request.getTransactionId(), false, responseObserver, "Commit", () -> {
  // Commit the transaction
  customerRepository.commit();
  return Empty.getDefaultInstance();
});
```

> ### Error handling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Perform error handling
```

> When some error happens during the transaction, the transaction will be automatically rolled back by `executeTwoPcTransaction()`. The implementation to invoke `rollback` gRPC endpoint of Customer Service also needs to be passed as a parameter to the API with other ones (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L134-L141)):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If an error occurs during the transaction, the transaction will be automatically rolled back by using `executeTwoPcTransaction()`. The implementation to invoke the `rollback` gRPC endpoint of Customer Service also needs to be passed as a parameter to the API with other ones (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L134-L141)):
```

> If an error occurs during the transaction, the transaction will be automatically rolled back by using `executeTwoPcTransaction()`. The implementation to invoke the `rollback` gRPC endpoint of Customer Service also needs to be passed as a parameter to the API with other ones (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L134-L141)):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If an error occurs during the transaction, the transaction will be automatically rolled back by using `executeTwoPcTransaction()`. The implementation to invoke the `rollback` gRPC endpoint of the Customer Service also needs to be passed as a parameter to the API with other ones (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L134-L141)):
```

Author: Applying this change in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/40

```java
Collections.singletonList(
  RemotePrepareCommitPhaseOperations.createSerializable(
    this::callPrepareEndpoint,
    this::callValidateEndpoint,
    this::callCommitEndpoint,
    this::callRollbackEndpoint
  )
)
```

> In the `rollback` endpoint of Customer Service, it resumes and rolls back the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L149-L153)):

Reviewer 2: According to a [similar sample doc](https://scalardb.scalar-labs.com/docs/latest/scalardb-samples/microservice-transaction-sample/README/#error-handling), "it" seems to refer to "Customer Service". If that is correct, can we change this sentence as follows?

```suggestion
In the `rollback` endpoint of Customer Service, the microservice resumes and rolls back the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L149-L153)):
```

> In the `rollback` endpoint of Customer Service, the microservice resumes and rolls back the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L149-L153)):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `rollback` endpoint of the Customer Service, the microservice resumes and rolls back the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L149-L153)):
```

Author: Applying this change in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/40

```java
execTwoPcOperation(request.getTransactionId(), false, responseObserver, "Rollback", () -> {
  // Rollback the transaction
  customerRepository.rollback();
  return Empty.getDefaultInstance();
});
```

> Please see [this document](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md#handle-exceptions) for the details of how to handle exceptions in ScalarDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For details about how to handle exceptions in ScalarDB, see [Handle exceptions](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md#handle-exceptions).
```

Author: @josh-wong Thanks for the review! I agree with all the suggestions from you.

To get a license and permission, please [contact us](https://scalar-labs.com/contact_us/).

You also need the `gpr.user` property for your GitHub username and the `gpr.key` property for your personal access token.
You must either add these properties in `~/.gradle/gradle.properties` or specify the properties by using the `-P` option when running the `./gradlew` command as follows:

```shell
$ ./gradlew run ... -Pgpr.user=<YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME> -Pgpr.key=<YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN>
````

Or you can also use environment variables, `USERNAME` for your GitHub username and `TOKEN` for your personal access token.

```shell
$ export USERNAME=<YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME>
$ export TOKEN=<YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN>
```

For more details, please see [Install - ScalarDB SQL](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-sql#install).

## Sample application

### Overview

This tutorial describes how to create a Spring Boot sample application for Microservice Transaction for the same use case as [ScalarDB Sample](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/tree/main/scalardb-sample) but by using Two-phase Commit Transactions in ScalarDB.

> There are two microservices called *Customer Service* and *Order Service* based on the [*Database-per-service* pattern](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/database-per-service.html) in this sample application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two microservices called a *Customer Service* and an *Order Service* based on the [*Database-per-service* pattern](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/database-per-service.html) in this sample application.
```

Probably.
@josh-wong Is it correct?

Author: "a Customer Service and an Order Service" sounds a bit to me that there are multiple Customer Services and Order Services. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: In this sentence, I would use "a *Customer Service* and an *Order Service*". After we introduce them like this and use "the Customer Service" and "the Order Service" in subsequent sentences, we are establishing that there is one service for each.

Author: Thanks! I'll update the sentence.

Author: Done! https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/37/commits/1c763bc10902d094a05ef3d0e7ffee7329c7ad84

> Customer Service manages customers' information including credit card information like a credit limit and a credit total.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Customer Service manages customers' information including credit card information like a credit limit and a credit total.
```

> Order Service is responsible for order operations like placing an order and getting order histories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Order Service is responsible for order operations like placing an order and getting order histories.
```

Each service has gRPC endpoints. Clients call the endpoints, and the services call the endpoints each other as well.

> Customer Service and Order Service uses MySQL and Cassandra through ScalarDB, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Customer Service and Order Service use MySQL and Cassandra through ScalarDB, respectively.
```

![Overview](images/overview.png)

Note that both services access a small coordinator database used for the Consensus Commit protocol.

> The database is service-independent and exists for managing transaction metadata for Consensus Commit in a highly available manner, so we don't think it is violating the database-per-service pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The coordinator database is service-independent and exists for managing transaction metadata for Consensus Commit in a highly available manner. We believe the architecture does not spoil the benefits of the database-per-service pattern.
```

Author: Sounds better! Thanks

*NOTE: We also plan to create a microservice container for the coordinator database to truly achieve the database-per-service pattern.*

In this sample application, for ease of setup and explanation, we co-locate the coordinator database in the same Cassandra instance of the Order Service, but of course, the coordinator database can be managed as a separate database.

Also, note that application-specific error handling, authentication processing, etc., are omitted in the sample application since it focuses on explaining how to use ScalarDB.

> Please see [this document](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/api-guide.md#handle-exceptions) for the details of how to handle exceptions in ScalarDB.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Please see [this document](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md#handle-exceptions) for the details of how to handle exceptions in ScalarDB.
```
Should we refer to the 2pc exception guide instead ?

Author: Oh, definitely yes in this sample app. Thank you!

Additionally, you assume each service has one container in this sample application to avoid considering request routing between the services.

> However, for production, because each service typically has multiple servers (or hosts) for scalability and availability, you should consider request routing between the services in Two-phase Commit Transactions.

Reviewer: Instead, can we refer to ScalarDB Cluster?

Author: How about this?
"However, for production, because each service typically has multiple servers (or hosts) for scalability and availability, please consider to use ScalarDB Cluster which addresses request routing between the services in Two-phase Commit Transactions."

Author: Revised the sentence in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/37/commits/bd8f0d3a49cb664f98fc42344f31f01beea17300.

  // Commit the transaction
  customerRepository.commit();
  return Empty.getDefaultInstance();
});
```

### Error handling

When some error happens during the transaction, the transaction will be automatically rolled back by `executeTwoPcTransaction()`. The implementation to invoke `rollback` gRPC endpoint of Customer Service also needs to be passed as a parameter to the API with other ones (the code is [here](order-service/src/main/java/sample/order/OrderService.java#L134-L141)):

```java
Collections.singletonList(
  RemotePrepareCommitPhaseOperations.createSerializable(
    this::callPrepareEndpoint,
    this::callValidateEndpoint,
    this::callCommitEndpoint,
    this::callRollbackEndpoint
  )
)
```

In the `rollback` endpoint of Customer Service, it resumes and rolls back the transaction (the code is [here](customer-service/src/main/java/sample/customer/CustomerService.java#L149-L153)):

```java
execTwoPcOperation(request.getTransactionId(), false, responseObserver, "Rollback", () -> {
  // Rollback the transaction
  customerRepository.rollback();
  return Empty.getDefaultInstance();
});
```

> Please see [this document](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/api-guide.md#handle-exceptions) for the details of how to handle exceptions in ScalarDB.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Please see [this document](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md#handle-exceptions) for the details of how to handle exceptions in ScalarDB.
```
Likewise

{"order": [{"order_id": "069be075-98f7-428c-b2e0-6820693fc41b","timestamp": 1686555279366,"customer_id": 1,"customer_name": "Yamada Taro","statement": [{"item_id": 5,"item_name": "Melon","price": 3000,"count": 1,"total": 3000}],"total": 3000},{"order_id": "415a453b-cfee-4c48-b8f6-d103d3e10bdb","timestamp": 1686555272435,"customer_id": 1,"customer_name": "Yamada Taro","statement": [{"item_id": 1,"item_name": "Apple","price": 1000,"count": 3,"total": 3000},{"item_id": 2,"item_name": "Orange","price": 2000,"count": 2,"total": 4000}],"total": 7000}]}
...
```

This order history is shown in descending order by timestamp.

The customer's current `credit_total` is `10000`.
Since the customer has now reached their `credit_limit`, which was shown when retrieving their information, they cannot place anymore orders.

> TODO: Check the stack trace

Reviewer 4: TODO is remaining.

Author: Thanks. Fixed it in https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-samples/pull/37/commits/2c071e5e1bb859c157b910a9a97baa81a5d10dd6
